# TCRBert
### Predicting SARS-CoV-2 epitope-specific TCR recognition using pre-trained protein embeddings

We developed a predictive model based on pre-trained from the pre-trained <a href='https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.08230'>Tasks Assessing Protein Embeddings (TAPE) model</a>, employing the self-supervised transfer learning, to predict SARS-CoV-2 T-cell epitope-specific TCR recognition. The predictive model was generated by fine-tuning the pre-trained TAPE model using epitope-specific TCR CDR3β sequence datasets in a progressively specialized manner. The fine-tuned model demonstrated a markedly high predictive performance for two evaluation datasets containing the SARS-CoV-2 S-protein<sub>269-277</sub> epitope (<b>YLQPRTFLL</b>)-specific CDR3β sequences, and outperformed the recent Gaussian process-based model, TCRGP, for the ImmuneCODE dataset. In particular, the output attention weights of our model suggest that the proline at <b>P4</b> in the epitope may contribute critically to TCR recognition of the epitope. The <b>P272L</b> mutation in SARS-Cov-2 S-protein, which is corresponding to the <b>P4</b>, is known to be highly relevant to the viral escape associated with the second pandemic wave in Europe.
A recent experimental study of SARS-CoV-2 variants demonstrated that CD8+ T-cells failed to respond to the <b>P272L</b> variant. In addition, CDR3β-sequence amino acids at the central positions, rather than at both ends, may contribute to the TCR recognition of the epitope. Our attention-based approach, which can capture all motifs in both the epitope and CDR3β sequences in epitope-specific TCR recognition, may be more useful for predicting immunogenic changes in T-cell epitopes derived from SARS-CoV-2 mutations than MSA-based approaches which depend entirely on TCR sequences.
We anticipate that our findings will provide new directions for constructing a reliable data-driven model for predicting the immunogenic T cell epitopes using limited training data and help accelerate the development of an effective vaccine for the respond to SARS-CoV-2 variants, by identifying critical amino acid positions that are important in epitope-specific TCR recognition.

## Reference
1. Rao, R.; Bhattacharya, N.; Thomas, N.; Duan, Y.; Chen, X.; Canny, J.; Abbeel, P.; Song, Y. S. Evaluating Protein Transfer Learning with TAPE. NIPS 2019, 32, 9689–9701.
