{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 NetMHCPan4.0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
One potential cause for this relatively high rate of false positive epitope predictions is the fact that most methods are trained on binding affinity (BA) data and, as a consequence, only model the single event of peptide\'96MHC binding. As stated above, this binding to MHC is the most selective step in peptide Ag presentation. However, other factors, including Ag processing (12) and the sta- bility of the peptide\'96MHC complex (13), could influence the likelihood of a given peptide to be presented as an MHC ligand. Similarly, the length distribution of peptides available for binding to MHC molecules is impacted by other steps in the processing and presentation pathway, such as TAP transport and ERAP trimming, which are not reflected in binding data in itself (6). \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
MHCflurry\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl260\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
We used the MHC class I dataset curated by \cf3 O\'92Donnell et al. (2018)\cf2 . This dataset consists of 525 672 binding affinity and mass spectrometry measurements collected from IEDB, \cf3 Abelin et al. (2017) \cf2 and \cf3 Kim et al. (2014\cf2 ). This dataset also contains 2 541 370 non-ligand sequences (decoys) sampled from the protein-coding transcripts that also contained the mass spectrometry-identified pep- tides (hits) based on protein sequences in the UCSC hg19 proteome and transcript quantification from RNA sequencing of the relevant cell line (B721.221). As described in Abelin et al., for an allele with n hits, 100n decoys of length 8\'9615 were sampled, weighting tran- scripts by the number of hits. \
\
}